# Spatial Analysis of the Traffic Accidents in Toronto to identify the Risk Hotspots in the city
Road accidents are one of the concerning public health problems (Erdogan, 2009) and are severe in all modes of transport (Lindberg, 2005). “An accident is an outcome of several circumstances” like environmental conditions (visibility, time of day), vehicle type, age and driver condition etc., According to the World Health Organization 2023 Road traffic injuries data, traffic crashes resulting 1.19 million causalities each year and a leading cause of death for 5-29 years. The outcome of road accidents can be death, or disability affecting the physical and mental health of road users. 

In addition, accidents also contribute to property and infrastructure damage and the total accident costs are estimated to be nearly three percent of the global GDP (Athiappan et al., 2022). By investigating the accident pattern and frequency of occurrence we can determine the risk hotspots and routes that promote awareness in road users and assists in providing solutions to establish road safety measures.  The purpose of this study is to analyze "killed or seriously injured" accidents that happened in Toronto between 2019 and 2022. In Toronto around 5692 accidents occurred from 2016 to 2022, and the majority were fatal accidents significantly involving the 25-40 year age group. 

Road accident analysis was accomplished in Python, and using the Chi-square Test the factors influencing the accidents were identified and grouped into three categories Roads, Environment and Driver (Eboli et al., 2020). Using the factors obtained an accident risk index is developed by determining the weights of each category. Finally, risk hotspots of the city are determined by the spatial clustering of these accidents. The outcome of this report is the list of significant variables impacting the serious clashes in Toronto and risk hotspots and risk route details for the city. These results can improve road safety measures for both motorized and non-motorized transport users in Toronto. 
